Homework: Database Systems Overview
This document defines the homework assignments from the "Databases" Course @ Software University. Please 
submit as homework a single zip / rar / 7z archive holding the solutions (source code) of all below described 
problems.
Problem 1.	What Database Models do You Know?
Perform a research (e.g. in Google or Wikipedia) and provide an information about different type of database 
models. Provide detailed information about one of the database models by your choice, different from the 
relational model. Write in a text file called "database-models.txt". Use English.
Problem 2.	Which are the Main Functions Performed by a RDBMS?
Perform a research (e.g. Google or Wikipedia) and provide an information about the relational database 
management systems and their main functions. Write in a text file called "rdbms-functions.txt". Use English.
Problem 3.	Define What is "Table" in Database Terms
Perform a research (e.g. Google or Wikipedia) and provide an information about database table. What is table? How 
information is stored in tables? What is the difference between tables and relations? Write in a text file called 
"table.txt".
Problem 4.	Difference between a Primary and Foreign Key
Perform a research (e.g. Google or Wikipedia) and provide an information about primary and foreign keys in the 
RDBMS Systems. What is the primary key? Why do we need it? What is the foreign key? What is the purpose of 
foreign keys? What is the difference between a primary and foreign key? Write in a text file called "difference-
primary-foreign-key.txt".
Problem 5.	Relationships between Tables in Relational Databases
Perform a research (e.g. Google or Wikipedia) and provide an information about table relationships in relational 
databases. Provide more information about every relationship type (one-to-many, many-to-many, many-to-one, 
one-to-one, others). Write in a text file called "table-relationships.txt". 
Problem 6.	Schema Normalization
Perform a research (e.g. Google or Wikipedia) and provide an information about database schema normalization. 
There is a lot of information about database normalization on the Web. Explain briefly the process of schema 
normalization. Write in a text file called "database-normalization.txt".
Problem 7.	Advantages of Normalized Databases
Perform a research (e.g. Google or Wikipedia) and find an information about the benefits of database 
normalization. Write in a text file called "database-normalization.txt".
Problem 8.	Database Integrity Constraints
Explain the database integrity constrains. What are the constraint types? When are they used? Provide definition 
for all of them (primary key constraint, unique key constraint, foreign key constraint, others). Write in a text file 
called "integrity-constraints.txt".
Problem 9.	Pros and Cons of Using Indexes in a Database?
Perform a research (e.g. Google or Wikipedia) and provide an information about database indexes. What is index? 
What indexing methods exist? What is clustered index? What is B-Tree? What is column-store index? What is full-
text search index? What is spatial index? What are the pros and cons of using indexes? Write in a text file called 
"indexes.txt".
Problem 10.	SQL Language
Perform a research (e.g. Google or Wikipedia) and provide an information about the SQL language. What type of 
language is SQL? What is its purpose? Provide an example with simple SQL query. Write in a text file called "sql.txt".
Problem 11.	Transactions
Perform a research (e.g. Google or Wikipedia) and provide a basic information about database transactions and 
their application? What is ACID transaction? What is transaction log? Write in a text file called "transactions.txt".
Problem 12.	What is a NoSQL Database?
Perform a research (e.g. Google or Wikipedia) and provide an information about non-relational databases (NoSQL)? 
Give a few examples of NoSQL databases. Write in a text file called "nosql.txt".
Problem 13.	Install SQL Server *, MySQL and Oracle
Try to install MS SQL Server. You can follow instructions from this video https://softuni.bg/trainings/1045/First-
steps-with-Microsoft-SQL-Server. Try to create new user and login with this user. Try to create new database with 
few tables. 
Try the same with MySQL and Oracle XE.





